Options are complex financial instruments
that are good to know and suitable
for different types of investors.
In fact, they can be used to obtain a
profit or to hedge and reduce
risk. Options are part of that
category of financial instruments
called derivatives, i.e. instruments in
which the value  it is linked to the price of an
underlying asset this asset can
be real for example a
raw material such as gold or financial of
a share a bond or an index if you
don't remember we talked about it
here on the channel with a dedicated video
Options work as contracts that
give the buyer the right
to buy or sell the
underlying asset on a certain date at a
previously set price in exchange for
the payment of a premium. It is an option,
but not an obligation. You can
choose whether to exercise or  not exercising
a previously acquired right,
let's take for example an investor who
decides to buy an option that has
the shares of a Big
Tech as its underlying asset. When he buys them, the investor
pays a premium which gives him the right to
buy or sell the
underlying asset  on a certain date or by
a certain date and at a certain price,
this price, called the exercise price or
Strike Price, is defined at the time
of signing the contract. How
the options work is
similar to that of
insurance, we pay a premium in a way
that if a certain event were to occur
we can have compensation in the
case of options the event is a
price movement when buying
an option the investor has the
possibility to buy or sell
a certain underlying asset whose price
may have remained unchanged  increased or
decreased depending on whether you are contracting to
buy or sell the
underlying asset, a distinction is made between
Call options and put options Call option What
is it at expiry, exercising the
right to Buy makes sense if at that
moment the price of the underlying is
higher  at the price established at the time
of the contract, those who sign a
Call option therefore expect an increase in the
underlying value Imagine paying 3
for a contract that gives you the right but
not the obligation to buy
Google shares at $150 each in the future this
contract  it has an expiration of 90 days and
is valid for 100 shares So you paid a
total of $300 3 per share for this
right After 90 days Two scenarios are
possible if the price of
Google shares is below 100 $50 the
contract loses value and would be
meaningless  exercise it if the price of
Google shares has risen to $200 or more the
contract becomes interesting you can
buy 100 shares at $150 each
saving $50 per share compared to the
market price This translates into
a total saving of $5000
remembering to remove the $300 of the
exercised right  put option What is it
in this case the exercise of the right
will make sense if the price of the underlying
is lower than the contract price let's
go back to the previous example if the
price of Google shares is at $140 or
less you can still sell the 100  shares
at $150 each you would earn the
difference of $10 per Share Which adds up to
a total of $1000 from which you must deduct
the $300 of the right exercised in
both cases the profit is based
on the difference between the market price
and the strike price How is it
calculated  the price of the options the
price of the options or premium is
calculated by adopting mathematical models
that take into account various factors from the
price of the underlying at the time of
signing the contract to the
volatility of the security from the
interest rates to the dividends paid by the
underlying difference between
European and American options  European options
allow you to exercise the right only
at expiry while
American options give you the possibility to do so
at any time within the
expiry date. This wider possibility
APR American options means that
their price is higher than that of
similar European options.  advantages and
disadvantages of options options are
useful tools to hedge against
unfavorable events or they can be used
for speculative purposes to bet
on certain events, earning money,
for example if a company plans
to purchase large quantities of steel
and expects that its price  will go up, you can
subscribe to an option that
will allow me to buy that quantity
of steel on a certain date or by a
certain date in the future at a price already
set, this is the typical case of
hedging. If instead you foresee an
increase or decrease of a certain  stock or
index you subscribe to a call or
put option aiming precisely to earn on the
rise or fall of that underlying,
options are therefore a
delicate instrument and not suitable for
beginner investors or at least not always
conclusions, options are a type of
derivative. This means  that the
product derives its value from the price
of the underlying asset can be
used for two purposes to hedge against
sudden events or to earn
money are contracts that give
the buyer the right to buy or
sell the underlying asset on a
certain date to a  certain price fixed
previously in exchange for the payment
of a premium is an option but not an
obligation a distinction is made between Call options
in the case in which it is agreed to buy
the underlying and put options in the case in
which the
underlying is agreed All clear If this video
you liked it, subscribe to the
investiamo channel by activating the notification bell
and follow us on Instagram in the
description you will also find the links for the
Newsletter and promo for the next
[Music]
video